# sales-analytics-report
This report contains sales and financial analysis for 3 years of a company named AtliQ hardwares. AtliQ hardware is a manufacturer of computer parts like pc, mouse, monitor, keyboards etc. It has both brick & mortar and e-commerce platform as its customers. The company also has its own store AtliQ e store and AtliQ exclusive for selling its products.

The project analyzes the sales and financial data of 3 years  of its customers across the world to find out its strong and weak market. Also the report help analyse the market performance of the customers and whether they met their target or not? Growth in sales in year 2021 from 2020 is also reported. Data for metrics like net sales, COGS, gross margin, GM% all have been presented in the report fiscal year and quarter wise. PNL metrics for different market in year 2021 is also given. GM% filtered by sub-zone is also present in the report. All the insights given in the reports can help decide which country is the best market which is the worst, where some steps can be taken to improve its sales and how the company is performing?

TOOLS USED: These reports have been created using advance excel.

PROCESS FLOW: First i did ETL on the data provided using power query and loaded the data to data model. Than in power pivot i created the data model using digramitic view and created all the necessary measures needed using DAX. Using  dynamic pivot table i created the final reports. The process also involved adding some additional table to existing data model. for example, to add target to the report,another table named target was added in the data model later.I also created a date table to create fiscal year for the company(sept-august),inside existing data model using power query.

KEY INSIGHTS: customer performance report shows that total 300 % + growth was there from 2020 to 2021. Also total 5 new customers Nova, Intergration Stores, Electricalsbea Stores,Chiptec & All-Out were added in 2020 and all of them are performing good whereas Nova store has shown excellent performance and its growth percentage is more than 2500%. At the same time if target is considered for 2021, the company lags the target by approximately 8%. India has performed very good in net sales of 2021 and lags the target by only 5.5%. infact India is one of the best market as its sales is highest amoung all countries. All the metrics i.e net_sales, COGS, gross margin all shows a increasing trend from 2019 to 2021.
